# Navigating the Human Subjects Research Protocol for Child Speech Corpora Collection

Principal Investigators (PIs) need to document details about the study information which includes: study personnel, recruitment materials, consent forms, study instruments (study population, data collection, meta-data, technology details, etc.). It is also vital for parents and guardians to know that the collected data will only be accessible to approved research personnel in that organization and not shared/accessible by any third-party. Each country will have its own human subjects protocol regulation. For e.g. Belmont Report and 45 Code of Federal Regulations Part 46 in the US, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for the EU. A compilation of such regulation from 131 countries and from many international organizations can be found [here](https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/international/compilation-human-research-standards/index.html) as illustrated by the International Compilation of Human Research Standards. Where forensic data is concerned, in scenarios where data is collected for investigations concerning law enforcement, legislation that relates to the legal authority under which the data is collected may also apply at state and/or federal level depending on the criminality. The equivalent legislation in the UK is the Data Protection Act 2018 – GDPR and Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984. This will provide a legal basis for collecting and examining the data thus enabling it to be used in evidence where necessary.

1.	**Personnel and Site Information**: This includes information about the PI, co-PI, and Research Personnel. All study personnel need to complete the human subjects research certification as approved by the IRB. This also includes information about the study site – both collection and analysis of speech data. 

2.	**Purpose**: For the purpose of the study, the specific aims/objectives need to be outlined, the hypotheses to be tested or the research questions that will guide the study, the role of investigators which includes recruitment, collection, annotation, and use, and the research activity location. The purpose includes background (contribution by literature review), design and methodology needs to be elaborated for a lay audience. 

3.	**Population**: The participant enrollment information includes the total number of participants (study population) expected to the enrolled and how this number would be sufficient to accomplish the aims of the study. Since the study population includes minors (below 17 years) which is a vulnerable population, PIs need to provide the specific child age range, the necessity of inclusion or exclusion, and special arrangements to protect the rights and welfare of the human subjects. An example of exclusion would be if a subject (teacher/student) transfers to a non-participating classroom or leaves the school. There might be adults also included in the study population such as parents, teachers, caregivers, etc. The PI needs to ensure that all the study personnel involved in research with minors have completed a criminal background check, especially for studies in the US. PIs need to ensure that recruitment of human subjects is free of coercion/undue influence – option for voluntary participation, ability to ask questions about any aspect of the study, and allowing the participants to withdraw from the study at any time without consequences.

4.	**Recruitment**: Investigators could promote recruitment online through social media or offline via flyers, which need IRB board approval. In collecting child speech data, it is typically the case where financial support is provided to the partner organization (e.g., daycare, learning center, school, etc.) to offset time efforts by the staff in the center. It is also the case that some form of honorarium/subject fee can be provided to the families who have children participating in the research study. In many cases, families will defer and allow any financial support to go to the child learning team to help support the operational needs of the center in support of their children.

5.	**Informed Consent**: PIs need to prepare relevant consent forms for data collection (and use). For studies involving children, parental consent and/or children's assent form(s) are both required, whenever applicable. A consent form is a summary of the entire IRB application but summarized to a lay audience, including: PI information, study purpose, description, # of participants, length of participation, inclusion/exclusion criteria, possible risks/benefits, payment information, and all other relevant information as deemed appropriate by the IRB of record. 

6.	**Procedures**: PIs need to illustrate the method of data collection, activities, and type of data/records. Understand that although audio/speech recordings are primary data, secondary data such as meta-data are also included in here. 

7.	**Risks/Benefits**: PIs need to illustrate level of risk to participants associated with to study, along with expected benefits to participants and society. 

8.	**Conflict of Interest**: It is also customary for the PI to declare any financial conflict of interest.

9.	**Data Security/Privacy**: PIs need to avoid any collection or recording of identifiable information that is unnecessary to the study and to guard against unauthorized release of identifiable information. Only trained individuals in the research team, listed on the IRB protocol, must have access to the collected data which is stored in an institutionally approved storage location. Unless otherwise specified in the approved IRB, all study materials related to the research study are expected to be deleted as per the institutional record retention policy. However, if the IRB allows for the study materials to be retained, investigators must ensure that the IRB is active and is renewed in due time.
